# FEM Harness Engineering

Watching [this course](https://frontendmasters.com/workshops/harness-engineering/).

You can find the [GitHub repository here](https://github.com/Hendrixer/harness-engineering).

## The Agent Harness

- Harness is everything _but_ the agent. It's the tools, the infrastructure, the prompts.

  - Without a good harness, even the smartest agent will fail miserably on production.

- At the most basic level, the "agent" is "just" a `while` loop.

At this part of the workshop, we coded a very basic agent and looked at the ways it failed:

1. No recollection of memories. You kill the server and all previous memories are gone.

2. Using certain tools without approval.

3. One agent doing pretty much everything. There is no "routing" to other agents.

## Durable Execution

So how do we handle the case where the agent is interrupted mid-message? Mid-tool-call?

We can leverage a notion of "durable workflow step" within our agent.

At it's core, we are going to take note of the inputs and outputs of each step our agent takes. Then, we can reply those steps if needed.

So, if we are interrupted mid tool-call, we can reply that step with the inputs we saved.

This sounds nice on paper, but in reality we would also have to consider that this inputs/outputs data is potentially PII and sensitive. It might be problematic when it comes to GDPR.

- We used the `jsonb` column type to store the event data in our "event ledger".

  The `b` suffix is for _binary_, but it does not mean that you store the data itself as binary, but rather than _binary_ is an internal representation of the data.

  **You would use the `jsonb` column for fast retrieval/searches on json data**. The `jsonb` column will "normalize" the JSON data – strip the whitespace, collapse duplicate keys and so on.

  **With `jsonb` you pay a "write penalty" since PostreSQL has to parse the data to it's internal representation form**. That's not the case for `json` where the data is stored as plain text.

  Overall, in most cases, the `jsonb` would be the better type to use for JSON data, but keep in mind that **you will loose the original "structure" of the data**, so use-cases where you need to validate the signature or have the data verbatim, are cases where you would want to use `json` type instead.

- One interesting side-effect of using _durable execution_ is that **you have to ensure that your code, when re-run evaluates to the same value and is free of side-effects (or the side-effects are idempotent)**.

  I assume that, in some cases, this might be very hard to achieve.

## Sandboxed Tools & Code Mode

What if you want to give your agent the ability to _write and execute code_?

You _could_ yolo it, and run `eval` on the code generated by the agent, but that might not be what you want – it exposes you to various security risks.

As a solution, **you might want to run the code LLM _proposes_ in some kind of isolated environment – a _sandbox_**.

### The "Code Mode"

By default, any tool invocation lands in the LLM context. This is fine, in most cases, but might be problematic for others.

Imagine a case where, to achieve certain outcome, the LLM must call multiple tools after each other and interpret the results sequentially. Something like TOOL-1 -> _think_ -> TOOL-2 -> _think_ and so on. **This creates context bloat**.

One way to "fix" this, **especially when talking about MCP servers**, is the so-called ["Code Mode" coined by Cloudflare](https://blog.cloudflare.com/code-mode/).

The idea here is to **expose MCP tools as a TypeScript API, and let the LLM write TypeScript code instead of calling MCP tools directly**.

The main benefit here is that LLM can write elaborate programs that re-use results from previous calls to arrive at a result. **This greatly reduces the amount of data pushed into the LLM context window**.

Of course, to _run_ those TypeScript programs written by the LLM, you will need some kind of sandbox!

## Memory & Context Hydration

In this lesson, we built a simple "sliding window" context mechanism with automatic summary of the old messages when we cross a certain threshold.

Before we invoke the inference, we check if the number of tokens we would push to the context is greater than X, if that's the case:

1. Remove the oldest messages until we are back within the limit.

2. Summarize the old messages.

3. Include the summary as part of the `system` message.

The key thing to keep in mind is that **you want to produce a summary on complete "turn", rather than individual messages**. Each turn ends in a state that would trigger an LLM response!

## Routing & Handoffs

**You most likely do not need multiple-agent handoffs**. In most cases, a single agent with a good harness will do just fine.

**Where multi-agent handoffs shine** is where you need:

1. Least privilege: you can scope tools, permissions, to that one particular agent.

2. Different guardrails, policy or model: sometimes, you want to use different models for different tasks. Perhaps you have a cheaper model doing less complex things, and more expensive model doing more involved things.

3. Separate ownership: similar to how "federation" might work in Web world, you have multiple agents owned by multiple teams. Without routing and handoffs, separating ownership might be hard.

## Supervision

**Similar to routing & handoffs, you might not need to use this pattern**. A single agent _might_ be just fine.

**But, if you decide to use this pattern, you will get**:

1. Context isolation: the supervisor's context is not polluted with steps from sub-agents.

2. Parallelism: you can have multiple sub-agents working while supervisor is left to orchestrate them.

**At some point, you will need to merge the results you receive form sub-agents**. This step is critical and can be hard to do right.

Think about it like compaction. You might miss subtle details!

### Supervision vs. Routing & Handoffs

When you use supervision, you _keep_ control. When you use handoffs, you let go of the control to another agent.

Start part 5 -45:39
