# a11y in Javascript

Notes from FrontendMasters workshop.

## How NOT to use ARIA

> Inspired by [this great video](https://www.accessibilityoz.com/resources/videos/how-not-to-use-aria/)

As developers, we have a tendency to overuse some techniques. Like in the case of favouring JS instead of CSS for simple tasks, one can overuse the ARIA attributes degrading the overall accessibility of the markup.

1. There is no reason to add **ARIA attributes to HTML elements that already have accessible APIs**. A good example would be adding `role="radio` to a `input type = "radio"` element. Another, **which I'm guilty of**, is **adding `aria-required` and `required` to a `input` element**. Stop it!

2. The `aria-describedby` is great for errors, but ensure you do not overload the user with information. Being verbose has it place and time.

3. When **copying code with ARIA attributes, ensure you understand what you are copying**. Watch out for `id` definitions and how they relate to existing ARIA attributes in the markup.

## Visibility vs Opacity vs Visually-Hidden vs Display vs `aria-label`

### Visibility

- element still occupies given space (width and height)

- is invisible as in like `opacity:0`

- **takes accessibility information away**

### Opacity

- like `visibility` but **does NOT take accessibility information away**

### Visually-Hidden

- preserves accessibility information

- enables focusing **granted you keep the element dimensions to 1x1 and not 0x0**.

  - on some browsers, if you set the dimensions to 0x0 px, the elements will not be focusable.

### Display

- pulls element from the DOM flow

- **takes accessibility information away**

### `aria-label`

- **can only be used on interactive elements like `buttons` or `inputs`**.

- sometimes it is hard to get right. Using `VisuallyHidden` is, in my opinion, a bit easier.

#### Translation issues

- **some browsers will NOT translate the text you put inside the `aria-label`**. See [this video](https://youtu.be/0ckOUBiuxVY?t=21037) to learn more.

  - keep in mind that, **while your app might not support different languages, people might still use google translate to translate the content of the page!**

- as an alternative, **you can also use `aria-labelledby`**.

## The `hidden="until-found"`

> [Based on this blog post](https://schepp.dev/posts/rethinking-find-in-page-accessibility-making-hidden-text-work-for-everyone/?utm_source=stefanjudis&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=web-weekly-152-interop-2025-and-consolecontext).

Consider the following:

```jsx
<a href="/some-page">
  <svg />
  <span className="sr-only">Slack</span>
</a>
```

This will render an accessible "icon link". We are using the `sr-only` instead of `aria-label` to avoid issues with translating text – so far so good.

Now, what will happen if I attempt to search for "Slack" on the page? Would you expect the `Slack` to show up? You will see the "Slack" in the search results, but you will not be able to _see it_, since it's "visually hidden".

A **much better UX would be to show the copy when user "matches" on it when searching**. To do that, **use the `hidden="until-found"` attribute**.

```jsx
<a href="/some-page">
  <svg />
  <span hidden="until-found">Slack</span>
</a>
```

At the time of writing this, there are some inconsistencies across browsers that might make it hard to use this approach in production, but the vendors are working on it! **Note that the `details` element already implements this functionality**.

## Accessibility Tree

- parallel structure to the DOM

- uses platform a11y APIs (Mac is different from Windows)

## TabIndex

- **you should very strongly prefer `tabIndex:0`**, this will ensure that the
  page has the _natural flow_.
- `tabIndex:-1` is mainly used for focusing by javascript. You will not be able
  to focus it using _normal flow_ (eg. tab key).

- anything above `tabindex:0` will **fuck up your document flow**. By setting
  `tabindex` that way you are now responsible for managing focus on the whole
  page. GG 👋

## Native elements vs generic ones

- you should always prefer using semantic elements. They come with many features
  baked in like :
  - proper focus management
  - proper event handling
  - and many more..

## Links vs Buttons

[Great article](https://marcysutton.com/links-vs-buttons-in-modern-web-applications)

- Buttons for actions
- Links navigate

## Outline

- **DO NOT SET `outline:0`**
- use css to customize behavior (like `:focus-visible`)

## Live Regions

> Read more about _live regions_ [here](https://tetralogical.com/blog/2024/05/01/why-are-my-live-regions-not-working).

> Another [great article here](https://tetralogical.com/blog/2024/05/01/why-are-my-live-regions-not-working).

- used to announce something (like combobox filtering result)

- can be `polite` (non-interrupting) and `assertive` (interrupts previous announcement)

- live regions can be useful when dealing with forms and alerts about validity and informing use that an error occurred or that something was saved

- **except the `role="alert"` region**, the screen reader **will NOT announce the "initial" content of the region**.

  ```html
  <div role="alert">I will be announced when page loads</div>
  ```

  - you have to **ensure the browser "sees" the empty region first**, and then populate it with content.

    ```html
    <!-- This will not work as expected -->
    <div aria-live="assertive">Announce this when the page loads</div>

    <!-- This will not work as expected -->
    <!-- Even if you remove the `display:none` class -->
    <div aria-live="assertive" class="display:none">I'm hidden</div>

    <!-- First, let the browser "see" this region. -->
    <!-- Then, update the region content -->
    <div aria-live="assertive" class="sr-only"></div>
    ```

## `prefers-reduced-motion`

- you can use it with media queries (media query reacts on hardware level, eg.
  user preferences inside system settings)

- should be used to soften or turn off given animation

## Attributes

### `aria-labelledby`

Consider the `a` element. The screen reader will read out _everything_ that is consider within that element.

```html
<a href="#" class="card">
  <h2>Card title</h2>
  <p>Some very long text</p>
</a>
```

Consider how much the screen reader would read to the user. If the card description is long, the experience might not be optimal. You can "fix" this problem by using `aria-labelledby` attribute.

```html
<a href="#" class="card" aria-labelledby="card-title">
  <h2 id="card-title">Card title</h2>
  <p>Some very long text</p>
</a>
```

Much better!

### `aria-describedby`

I would use this attribute mainly with forms and helper text / error text. **This attribute is for providing _supplementary_ description**. Do not mistake this attribute with `aria-labelledby`.

Lets say your structure looks as follows:

```jsx
<input id="id" type="text" />;
{
  helperText && <span>Helper text</span>;
}
{
  errorText && <span>Error Text</span>;
}
```

The problem with this structure is that `helperText` and `errorText` is not associated with the `input`, thus not being read by screen readers.

To fix the issue you should use `aria-describedby` attribute. **The `aria-describedby` allows you to pass multiple IDs to it!**

```jsx
// the ids for helper and error text should be created dynamically
const helperTextID = helperText ? `${name}-helper` : ""
const errorTextID = errorText && isInvalid ? `${name}-error}`: ""

<input id = "id" type = "text" aria-describedby= {`${helperTextID} ${errorTextID}`}>

{
  helperText && <span id = {helperTextID}>Helper text</span>;
}
{
  errorText && <span id = {errorTextId}>Error Text</span>;
}
```

**Make sure to also use the `aria-invalid` attribute on the field if it is invalid!**. The combination of `aria-describedby` with `aria-invalid` makes for a true accessible error messages.

```jsx
const hasErrors = ...
return (
  <label htmlFor = "name">Name</label>
  <input id = "name" id = "name" type = "text" required = {true} aria-invalid = {hasErrors} aria-describedby = "name-error">
  {hasErrors ? <span id = "name-error">Name is required</span> : null}
)
```

Some people also seem to advocate for using the _live regions_ (`role="alert"`), like so

```tsx
return (
  <>
    <div role="alert" tabIndex={-1}></div>
    <form>...</form>
  </>
);
```

This technique should be **used for _form-submit_ errors rather than the inline errors**. You would **populate the `div` with errors and switch the `tabIndex=0` attribute after the user submits the form**. [You can learn more about this technique here](https://www.accessibilityoz.com/resources/videos/error-messages-in-forms/).

## `aria-labelledby` vs. `aria-describedby` vs. `aria-label`

> You can learn more by [watching this video](https://www.accessibilityoz.com/resources/videos/aria-labelledby-vs-aria-describedby-vs-aria-label/).

- **`aria-labelledby` is used to provide an accessible name for a given element**.

  ```html
  <div role="dialog" aria-labelledby="heading">
    <h1 id="heading">Modal title</h1>
  </div>
  ```

- **`aria-describedby` is used to DESCRIBE and provide more semantic meaning to an element**. You should use it for **form errors**.

  ```jsx
  <label htmlFor="name">Name</label>
  <input id="name" id="name" type="text" required="{true}" aria-invalid="{hasErrors}" aria-describedby="name-error" />
  <span id="name-error">Name is required</span>
  ```

  - You can **specify more than one id in the `aria-describedby`**. Keep in mind to not overload the user with information.

- **`aria-label` is used to provide accessible name directly to a given element**. The contents of the `aria-label` will not be visible on the screen.

  This of this as a way to provide a contextual information to users who have a poor vision and may not be able to guess the "context" of the element.

  ```html
  <button aria-label="Close and return">Close</button>
  ```

## `aria-hidden`

In some cases, you do not want the screen reader to read given elements, like images or icons.

In such cases, consider using `aria-hidden=true` on that element.

The most common use-case I encountered is with _icon buttons_ – buttons that look like the following.

```tsx
<button>
  <span class="rocket-icon" aria-hidden={true}></span>
  <VisuallyHidden>Fly away</VisuallyHidden>
</button>
```

Consult [the MDN documentation to learn more](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-hidden)

## Dynamic data and a11y

Ideally, when loading data, screen readers would announce that some new data was added to the page. It turns out, we can achieve that by **marking the container in which we will append the data as _live region_**.

```jsx
const { data } = useGetData();

return (
  <section aria-live="polite">
    <h1>Your data</h1>
    {data ? <DisplayData data={data} /> : null}
  </section>
);
```

In addition, **one could use the `aria-busy`** attribute to indicate that data is loading.

```jsx
const { data, isLoading } = useGetData();

return (
  <section aria-live="polite" aria-busy={isLoading}>
    <h1>Your data</h1>
    {data ? <DisplayData data={data} /> : null}
  </section>
);
```

The **only examples I've seen use `aria-busy` and `aria-live` together in this context**. I could not find any information whether I can use them separately or not. As such, I think it is best to keep them together on the same element.

### What about the `role` property?

It turns out the `role` property is **even better than the `aria-live` (in some cases)**. While the `aria-live` will make it so that the screen reader announces the content, the `role` will also add **more semantic meaning to the announcement**. So, the `role="alert"` would announce that the message is an _alert_ and so on.

The **biggest drawback of the `role` is that you do not get to control the "value" of the underlying region**. With `aria-live` you could specify the region to be "polite" or "assertive". With `role` attribute that is not possible – you have to provide different value to `role` which changes the semantics of the region.

### Loading indicators and a11y

Here, you **should use the `role="status"` and ensure the container has accessible text associated with it**.

```jsx
<div className={"loader"} role="status">
  <span className="sr-only">Loading data...</span>
</div>
```

The `role="status"` is a _live region_ which has the `aria-live` of "polite".
